    Title: Lab10
    Date: 2019-10-08T12:22:37
    Tags: lab


[Objects, Objects, Objects!](http://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html#h_cqg63Sxe3o) were the name of the game in Lab 10. Objects in Javascript are "arbitrary collections of properties" which allows variables to grasp various amounts of information (and of different types) in one place. So, instead of doing something like this: 

```
let student1Gender = "male";
let student1Event1 = "work";
let student1Event2 = "study";
```

One can do: 

```
let student1 = {
  male: true,
  events: ["work", "study", "pizza", "exercise"]
};
```

Inside of the braces, it creates a list of property names and associated values (similar to key value pairs). The following code demonstrates this.

```
console.log(student1.male)
> true
```

Whereas built in data types such as Strings are immutable, object values are able to modified. Meaning their properties can change. Another interesting thing I found out is that _methods_ in Javascript are just properties that are assigned to a function. Here is an example to describe what this means:

```
obj = {}
obj.hello = function () { console.log("hello world\n") }
obj.hello()
> "hello world"
```

We used objects and arrays to create various functions: [deep comparison](http://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html#i_IJBU+aXOIC), [range/sum of range](http://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html#i_8ZspxiCEC/), and varidadic functions. We continued to practice unit tests using jasmine. We also practiced [test driven development](https://technologyconversations.com/2013/12/20/test-driven-development-tdd-example-walkthrough/) where we had tests created before actually creating any code. TDD can be described as follows:

> first the developer writes an (initially failing) automated test case that defines a desired improvement or new function, then produces the minimum amount of code to pass that test, and finally refactors the new code to acceptable standards.

Developing this way definitely helps coders to think in terms of code coverage but sometimes it's easy to forget that there's a difference between code coverage and quality tests. I noticed that when we developed the code for deep comparison, we had all of our initial tests passing, but I also noticed that we missed an edge case where if one of the objects passed in was null then we would get the wrong answer. The lab consisted mostly of creating functions and passing the unit tests.




<!-- more -->

