    Title: Lab7
    Date: 2019-09-26T09:14:24
    Tags: lab

Lab 7 consisted of learning macros, short-circuiting, pattern matching, and combinators. I've heard of macros before especially in the context of cybersecurity, such as malware being spread through Microsoft Word's macro features. One [blog](https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2016/06/who-needs-to-exploit-vulnerabilities-when-you-have-macros.html) even suggests disabling macros almost completely for companies unless they have already been vetted and approved. In the lab, we learned to use macros as a way to redefine **and** as well as **or**. Part of the implementation, required understanding [short-circuiting](https://www.interviewcake.com/concept/java/short-circuit-evaluation), so that our _die_ function wouldn't cause our tests to fail. My **or** implementation looked like this: 

```
(define-syntax-rule (Or a b)
  (if b #t a)

```

Pattern matching is described as being "a fancy cond", where a pattern is specified to match against data being sent. For this part, I had to just follow the professor as there are cracks in my knowledge concerning racket. After this part was done, I spent some time reading about how _eval_ operates on a list at runtime, which makes it flexible but also [dangerous](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_injection#Dynamic_evaluation_vulnerabilities). 
eval is an example of reflection, because it operates on a regular list at runtime. This makes it very flexible but also somewhat dangerous.
> An eval() injection vulnerability occurs when an attacker can control all or part of an input string that is fed into an eval() function call.
The rest of the lab wasn't too bad, but there wasn't anything else that was interesting enough to grab my attention. As for tasks, there were just suggested readings and of course the lab activities. 


<!-- more -->

