    Title: lab9
    Date: 2019-10-03T11:45:54
    Tags: lab

Lab 9 delves into the strange world of **falsey** and **truthey**, as well as type conversion, recursion (of course), anonymous functions, testing and modules. 

```
> "" == 0
true
> "" === 0
false

```

In the above example, the first result is true and the second result is false. This is because _===_ checks for **TYPE** and **VALUE** and _==_ does a type coercion and attempts to make them a common type. This behavior stands in stark contrast to Racket where anything other than **#f** is true. 

``` 
> "" + 1
'1'
> x = ""
''
> x++
0

```

In this example, there is a string and we are adding a numerical one and the result is **'1**. Whereas, assigning x to an empty string and then using the operator _++_ causes the result to be 0 which is different from what one would most likely expect. It's another example of Javascript using type coercion in order to make some sense of what the programmer actually wants. 
Following this, we learned about anonymous functions and how they are similar to lambda functions in Racket. I found this to be easier to follow than when we did anonymous functions in Racket, and the reason for that could just be because I'm more familiar with that kind of function now. 

Dr. David Bremner mentioned an interesting story regarding modules (packages) that was very surprising! It had something to do with a trademark dispute, and the company Kik wanted a developer to rename their NPM package. It ended up breaking [thousands of projects](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/) when the developer pulled his code from the repository, leaving many projects having broken builds and being blocked from completion. NPM no longer allows developers to automatically unpublish an open-source module if it would break other installations following this debacle. Lastly, we used Jasmine to create tests for our work and a tool called [nyc](https://github.com/istanbuljs/nyc) to visualize how much code coverage there was in our tests. This wasn't too difficult as I've used [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) before in a co-op placement. There weren't any required readings, but I definitely have lots of reading to do this weekend to catch up!


<!-- more -->

