    Title: Lab5 Post
    Date: 2019-09-19T12:15:44
    Tags: labs

Lab 5 introduced [tail recursion](https://docs.racket-lang.org/guide/Lists__Iteration__and_Recursion.html#%28part._tail-recursion%29) which took my head for a spin in an effort to understand what is truly going on. Recursion of course is familiar but tail recursion was certainly a new concept. Helper methods and stack tracing was also introduced but already known to me. I practiced recursive thinking (in a new way) and loops. It was very interesting that the _odds-evens2_ function (which uses tail recursion) was significantly faster than the other functions. Dr. David Bremner mentioned that one of the reasons for this is because this is a case where the makers of the language found a way to optimize the language due to their knowledge of how stack frames work in regards to recursion. According to Racket then,

 > "tail recursion refers to the special case where the return value of the recursive branch is nothing more than the value of the next recursive call (also known as a tail call)." 

There is definitely a use for the technique but I still find it a little confusing and difficult and most likely will never use it.  I also found out about using the _range_ function to create numbers instead of build-list which will be very useful for me. The range function looks like this:
```
(range 1000000)
```
Most likely I will use this in my assignment 1 submission. The last task given dealt with Numerical Integration examples (using calculus). It's been a long time since I used calculus but thankfully a deep background in mathematics was not required, all that was required was to fix some failing tests. Also, aside from some suggested background reading we were required to stack trace, complete the _odds-evens2_ function, compare function speeds and commit our work. 

### Reference:
[Racket](https://beautifulracket.com/explainer/recursion.html)

<!-- more -->

